Instructions - The Assembly Language Examples

Copyright Apple Computer, Inc. 1987-1992
All rights reserved.

About the 32BitAExamples

	A sample assembly language program, using "-model far" is included
	with MPW. This is a modified version of the "count" program in the 
	{MPW}Examples:Aexamples: folder. The specifics of how to generate 32-bit
	addressing is discussed in the count.a file; to read, triple-click on the
	line below and hit "enter":
		
			open {MPW}Examples:32BitAexamples:Count.a

 Building the Example

	You can easily build the sample program using the Directory
	and Build menus.
	
	Set the default directory to "32BitAExamples:"

		The simplest way to do this is to select from the Directory menu
		the menu item that ends in "32bitAExamples:" You can also set the
		default directory by using the Directory and SetDirectory commands.
		

	Build the program
	
		You can use any of the four Build items at the bottom of the Build
		menu to build the program you have selected.  Each of these menu
		items displays a dialog box that asks for the name of the program
		you want to build.  When this dialog box appears, type the name of
		one of the sample programs (Sample, Count, or Memory).
		
		Each of the Build menu items behaves slightly differently:
		
			Build…  -  The program is automatically built.  The commands
			used, and any error messages, are displayed in the Worksheet.
			Only files that have been changed since you last built the
			program are compiled, saving considerable time.
	
			Full Build…  -  The program is completely rebuilt, ignoring
			any object files or intermediate files that may already exist
			from a previous build.  The commands used, and any errors, are
			displayed in the Worksheet.
			
			Show Build Commands…  -  The commands needed to build the program
			are written to the Worksheet, but not executed.  You can then
			select any or all of the commands and execute them yourself.
			(To execute the commands select them and press Enter.)
			
			Show Full Build Commands…  -  The commands needed to completely
			rebuild the program are written to the Worksheet.  This is a
			convenient way to see all of the commands used in building
			the program you have selected.


Count - A Sample MPW Tool

    Note: In MPW 3.3, a bug in this sample has been fixed. The bug was that
	      the tool ignored command line options.
	
	Note: This sample tool has an outstanding bug: the tool aborts wihout
	      accepting interactive input when a command line option is used,
		  bug no filename is provided.

	Count, a tool that runs in the MPW environment, counts characters and
	lines in files.  A version of Count is included with MPW, and is
	documented in the MPW Reference, Part II.  The source for Count is in
	the files Count.a, FStubs.a, and Count.r.  MakeFile contains the
	commands for building Count.

   To build Count, simply select the line below and press Enter.

		BuildProgram Count ∑∑ "{Worksheet}"

   To test Count, try counting the characters in file Count.a.

	  Count -c Count.a



